# SupplierSelectionXAI

Supplier Selection under Procurement remains a relatively unexplored issue in Supply Chain Management. It is a key factor that overlooks the enforcement of good buying decisions, satisfying stakeholders, minimizing maverick spending and hitting performance targets. Through supplier selection, an organisation examines, assesses and engages with suppliers. The Supplier Selection process utilizes an exorbitant amount of a company’s assets and is frequently the pivotal factor in the profitability of any firm. 

    Up to this point, the scope of deploying AI backed supplier selection models have been limited to the procurement of C-type products. This is due to the presence of undetected bias in the system, inability of AI models to consider qualitative parameters, lack of substantial datasets and ambiguity regarding the decision made by the algorithm. 

    Having said that, with the rise of Explainable AI, we presently have a set of tools and frameworks to comprehend and interpret the predictions made by Machine Learning models with greater confidence, and by extension, build more interpretable and inclusive AI. Furthermore, recent studies have presented a significant correlation between qualitative parameters(like market reputation of a supplier) and weighable statistics. Hence, in this project, a combination of mathematical, statistical and AI approaches are employed to gauge the performance and suitability of a supplier based on objective and subjective attributes. Subsequently, a post-hoc Explainable AI structure is added to help detect and resolve bias, drift and other gaps in the data while simultaneously growing end-user trust by improving transparency with human-interpretable explanations. 
